And I have one more example
that I will leave you
with because I believe this is the future.
So in example nine, I want to show you,
a bit of functionality for
generating a mock API.
And from here,
the difference is I'm using Faker and
I'm using Moment so Faker generates
fake data moment generate dates.
And in this case I want to
generate an API that has users.
So the first thing to do when you're
coming from a horizontal approach or
a domain driven design
approach is to understand
the model so
here I have an interface for user.
Now what I have done is I have created
an array that has the props in it.
And you'll see why in just a moment and
I've built out a few very small functions.
Random int, get random date and
this is starting to look familiar.
I have a generators function or
object rather, that has a key that maps
to the properties on this interface.
And I have an object attached to that with
the appropriate faker function
to generate that data.
So faker, if you don't know,
there is a number of functions that
exist on within the faker
library that you can say,
I wanna fake first name,
last name, email words whatever.
And so now I have a generate method
Hopefully you're starting to see this
repetition I mean convention we're
reducing over this and I am calling, The,
I'm passing in the prop,
which is, this right here.
And I'm getting the generator.
From here, I'm calling generator
function and passing in generator.args.
Again, this is just a slow
variation of what we've done.
Now, what I do want to call out here and
this is something that I did not know
until I endeavored to build this.
The, if somebody would have asked me well,
is there ever a case that we
need to use the classic fortlib.
Prior to this, I would have said,
well, generally not.
But the only place that I can think
of that you would need a classic for
loop is if you needed to iterate for
a specific number of iterations.
So if I needed to loop over something or
create a loop for
let's say 50 times,
then I was left doing length equals 50,
i equals zero increment i,
i is less than length.
And by poking around,
I found this little bit of code here,
this gem that basically creates new
array, so array.apply.
And so, what this does is
essentially I'm calling a function.
And I'm basically saying create a new
array to whatever length it is.
And then map over it.
And then from here generate
call the generator and
passing the user props and the generators.
And so somebody asked like,
am I going to talk about call or apply?
In this case, here we have it.
I've played my hand this alone in
my opinion was worth the price
of admission that when I found this out
I thought this was incredibly cool.
Is I'm basically saying I want to create
an empty array of this length and
then I'm going to iterate over it.
So what's neat about this
as well is that you'll
notice that the generate function Is,
very generic,
then the function that
calls it is specific.
And so, in this case I could, call or
I could create a generate, courses or
any kind of a domain
specific function that
then defers to this underlying
function of generate.
And so this was intentionally vague and
then this is a little bit more specific.
Now, what you could do is well from here.
Imagine that we have another
object that has title and
possibly like progress.
Because I have this segmented out and
it's not specifically to
the user object itself
that I've essentially
created a registry or
a HashMap to be able to generate
these specific properties.
But what I could do is for instance, and
I'll just make something up,
let's just go interface and
let's do this book,
and we're going to go id: string and
we're going to go title, also string
And we'll go notes, also a string.
And then from here I'm just
going to call out the props.
So const_bookProps equals,
and I'm doing this so
when I iterate like I'm
using this as the key
to look up the generator
in the generators object.
And so I'm certain,
there's probably another way to do this,
but, For efficiency's sake,
I'm just doing this.
Now, what I can do is I
can create a generatebooks
method that will just go here like this,
and
we're gonna go mean
let's just say 10 books,
which is not nearly enough and
we'll go 10,000.
And from here length equals
getRandomInt min, max and
then we're going to go const books.
equals array.apply null,
Array length map.
And from here generate
And will do bookProps and generators
And return books.
And I did something this does not
like const get over there.
There we go generate books and from here,
what I can do is I'll just copy this out,
And, generate books.
And let's see what this looks like.
All right, mock API users and
under here books.
And so It's not it wouldn't
take much to turn around and
drop this into like a serverless
function into a lambda function.
And then all of a sudden now,
you actually have a remote
API that you can hit.
And so what's interesting again,
the extension of this is that just
as much as I borrowed from immutable
infrastructure, that there's
absolutely nothing that's keeping us
from extending this into generating.
Infrastructures code by that, I mean,
typically CloudFormation templates,
TerraForm templates,
Serverless templates etc.
And I think the Holy Grail, in my opinion,
would be able to you where you would
define this in let's say stack Blitz.
And then you could press a button and
not only would it build your code, but
it would deploy it into
the cloud on your behalf.
And to me, that is where things or
at least mentally,
where I think somebody who could do that
would have a huge competitive advantage.